In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure roles and permissions and the Beast for web client.
So here you can see I've already logged into my vse fear web client and at the home screen we have the
roles button right here.
You can also access roles by going to the administration area and we can see all of our roles right
here.
And so underneath roles we've got a few things that we need to be aware of.
Now number one you've got the built in Administrator role.
And if we take a look at the privileges included there you can see it's pretty much everything right.
The administrator can do everything whereas the other built in roles like Read-Only and no access are
substantially more restrictive.
And those three are pretty self-explanatory.
Right we've got our administrator our Read-Only and our no access you can also see here.
There is another pre-built standard role that's included automatically called No cryptography administrator
and this is essentially the same privileges as the administrator role with a couple minor differences.
The most significant of which being it can't do encryption operations.
So with these for a 6.5 we can encrypt virtual machine disks.
We can't do that if we've got no.
Cryptography administrator Rob.
So that's an administrator that can do everything except for cryptographic operations.
So those are the kind of big for pre-built roles right there.
We've also got a bunch of sample rolls.
So if you need to create your own custom roles you can actually do so based on these samples.
And that's a great way to create a new custom role.
So if I wanted to create a new custom role similar to the content library administrator sample role
I could simply hit clone I could create my own custom roll and I can choose exactly which privileges
should be included.
And as you can see here I've already created a couple of sample custom roles I'm actually going to get
rid of these and we're going to create a new custom moral.
So I'm going to call my new custom roll help desk and this is a custom role for my helpdesk team.
So I want them to be able to do things like manage alarms.
I want them to be able to do things like open a console to a virtual machine.
And so under virtual machine I'll give them certain permissions like interaction and configuration and
guest operations and I'll choose some other things that I want to allow my helpdesk team to do like
maybe for example place a host in a maintenance mode or something like that.
Anyways I'll just kind of pick and choose exactly what I want to allow my helpdesk administrators to
do.
And those are the privileges that will be included in this role.
So that's what our role is.
It's simply a set of privileges.
And so now I've created my own custom role for my helpdesk team with a specific set of privileges included
there.
And so this role in and of itself doesn't actually accomplish anything.
The role doesn't mean anything until I actually assign it to a user.
So let's go here to hosts and Klosters and I'm going to set up a new permission by the way a quick side
note.
You may notice that my hosts are disconnected here.
That was because I had expired licenses which I have since resolved.
So when your license expires it disconnects your hosts.
I have figured out the licensing issues though.
So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to reconnect these hosts quickly here.
That my license is up to date they should connect no problem.
Anyways let's go ahead and set up some permissions.
So here you can see I've clicked on my H.A. cluster and under the H.A. cluster I'm going to go to permissions
by the way my hosts are connected now.
So I'm going to go to permissions and I'm going to create a new permission.
So let's click a little plus button here and what I want to do is I want to give the help desk roll
to either a user or group.
So if I click on Add here I'm going to be able to see all of my users and groups in the vees for that
local domain in your environment.
You've probably got an active directory domain available here and you can pick active directory domain
users and groups.
So I'm just going to pick a random group here I'm going to call it ESX adman's.
Perfect.
I'll add here.
OK.
So what I've established so far is everybody in this particular group ESX adman's is going to get the
help desk role.
They're going to get the help desk roll on the H.A. cluster.
So they're going to have all of these privileges on that ha cluster.
And I've got this propagate to children box checked.
So that means that child objects of that cluster such as these two ESX hosts here are also going to
get this same permission.
So when I hit OK here the permissions should appear and there it is ESX admins have the help desk.
And if I drill down and look at these child objects and look at their permissions they should have that
permission as well.
Because I can figure that checkbox to propagate to child objects.
If I look at my hosts if I look at my virtual machines that permission should have propagated down to
all of these child objects and we can see that it has.
So that's how you create roles and permissions inside of the Vees.
Fair web client.
And you just want to keep in mind the roles are simply a collection of privileges privileges.
Define what we can do and those privileges are used to create a permission for either a user or a group.